List of flooded areas in NCR due to Enteng
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Tropical Storm Enteng brought rains and caused up to chest-deep floods in some areas in Metro Manila on Monday morning.
In its flood alerts, the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) said floods were reported in the following roads in the National Capital Region but have already subsided.
Andrews Avenue Almazor St northbound - subsided as of 2 p.m.
Sucat road Evacom - subsided as of 12:46 p.m.
Dr.A.Santos infront Olivarez College northbound - Subsided as of 4:37 p.m.
Circulo Del Mundo infront Brgy 183 - subsided as of 2:51 p.m.
Edsa Shaw Tunnel northbound - subsided as of 3:11 p.m.
Dr.A.Santos Infront Parañaque National H.S. northbound - subsided as of 12:25 p.m.
Aside from these, local government units (LGUs) in Metro Manila also reported floods in their respective areas:
Pasig City (as of 5 p.m.)
Kabutihan St, Brgy. Dela Paz
Karangalan Gate 1 to Gate 5, Brgy. Manggahan
Infant Jesus St., Metroville, Brgy. Manggahan
F. Manalo Bridge in Brgy Manggahan is also temporarily closed even to light vehicles.
Caloocan City (as of 11:40 a.m.)
Not passable to any type of vehicle:
North Olympus, Barangay 172
Doña Aurora Road
Quirino Highway Malaria, Barangay 185
Durian Street, Barangay 177
Corner Acacia and Santolan Street, Barangay 179
Sapang Alat Bridge, Barangay 185
Manggahan Street
Sampaguita Street
Crispulo Street
Everlasting Street
Not passable to motorcycle:
456 Camarin Road, Barangay 174
Malabon City (as of 5 p.m.)
All major thoroughfares in the city are clear from flood waters except in Silverswan and Panghulo with two to three inches deep floods.
Valenzuela City (as of 4:15 p.m.)
Passable to all types of vehicles:
Footbridge Dalandanan on Macarthur Highway - gutter-deep, three to four inches
Maysan-Paso de blas-NLEX - Bagbaguin
Bartolome St. Malanday - gutter-deep, five inches
Rincon cor. Pasolo - gutter-deep, two inches
JP Rizal cor Fortaleza Arty 2 Subdivision Karuhatan - gutter-deep level, three to four inches
Not passable to light vehicles
T. Santiago corner Bypass Veinte Reales - knee-deep, 19 inches
Parañaque City (as of 2 p.m.)
As of 2 p.m., floods in most barangays have already subsided.
Seven areas in Luzon are under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) No. 2 as Enteng moved over Quirino after making landfall in Casiguran, Aurora state weather bureau PAGASA said.
Classes have been suspended in some Luzon and Visayas areas due to Enteng. In Metro Manila, government work has also been suspended.
Enteng was moving northwestward at 20 km per hour with maximum sustained winds of 85 kph near the center and gustiness of up to 140 kph.
“From tomorrow afternoon to Thursday, ENTENG will move generally westward over the West Philippine Sea. On the track forecast, this tropical cyclone may exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility on Wednesday (4 September) morning or afternoon,” said PAGASA.
“ENTENG is forecast to maintain tropical storm category until Tuesday and will intensify into a severe tropical storm by Wednesday. It may also reach a peak category of typhoon by Thursday or Friday. Further intensification over the Philippine Sea is still likely due to favorable conditions,” it added.—AOL/RF, GMA Integrated News
