LIST: Flooded areas in Metro Manila on July 10, 2026
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Heavy rains caused flooding on some roads in Metro Manila on Friday amid the effects of Typhoon Inday and the Southwest Monsoon or Habagat.
The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) released the following road status update as of 4:35 p.m.:
Mandaluyong City
F. Ortigas St. cor. Boni Avenue - gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Manila City
Other Stories
LOOK: Habagat rains trigger floods across Luzon
Southwest Monsoon or Habagat to drench Luzon and Visayas on Saturday, Aug. 29, 2026
LIVE UPDATES: Habagat rains affect parts of PH on Friday, Aug. 28, 2026
España Maceda - subsided as of 3:24 p.m.
Along Taft Avenue from Pedro Gil to in front of PGH (northbound) - subsided as of 4 p.m.
España Antipolo to Quintos (eastbound/westbound) - subsided as of 3:20 p.m.
Earlier at 2:50 p.m., the MMDA issued a flood alert in the following areas:
Mandaluyong City
F. Ortigas St. cor. Boni Avenue - half knee deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Quezon City
EDSA Aurora Tunnel (northbound/southbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA Aurora Service Road (northbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Kamuning Service Road (northbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Along Araneta between Quezon Ave. and E. Rodriguez - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA Santolan Service Road (northbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
White Plains (westbound, eastbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA North Avenue - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Quezon Avenue Bian na Bato - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Araneta E. Rodriguez (southbound/northbound) - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA Main Ave. northbound - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Manila City
Along Taft Avenue from Pedro Gil to in front of PGH (northbound) - half gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Espana Maceda - Gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
Pasig City
Valle Verde VI (Outermost Lane) - Above knee level; not passable to all types of vehicles
C5 Ortigas Valle Verde 6 (southbound, innermost lane) - Above gutter level; not passable to light vehicles
Marikina City
Marcos Highway, SM Marikina Bridge Service Road (westbound) - gutter deep; passable to all types of vehicles
In MMDA’s earlier advisory around 1 p.m., gutter-deep flooding was also recorded at EDSA Shaw Tunnel (northbound) in Mandaluyong City.
In a social media post, GMA News' Mariz Umali reported heavy rains and knee-level flooding at Kaliraya cor., Araneta Avenue in Quezon City.
As of 2:16 p.m., GMA News’ Vonne Aquino reported that flooding along EDSA-Santolan has rendered the area nearly impassable for some vehicles.
—Lyjah Tiffany Bonzo/LDF/VBL, GMA News
