Heavy rains from Habagat trigger floods in parts of Metro Manila
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Floods hit parts of Metro Manila as the Southwest Monsoon (Habagat) and the trough of a low pressure area (LPA) continued to bring heavy rains over a large swath of the country on Tuesday.
According to the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), the following areas were affected by the flooding as of 1:15 p.m.:
Manila
Recto Mendiola Intersection: gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Recto Rizal Ave: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Recto Loyola WB: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Recto Benavidez: Above gutter, passable to all types of vehicles
Recto Alonzo: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
España Dela Fuente: Knee deep, not passable to light vehicles
España Blvd Antipolo: Knee deep, not passable to light vehicles
España Lacson WB: Above Gutter deep, not passable to light vehicles
España Lacson EB: Above Gutter deep, not passable to light vehicles
España Blvd cor Antipolo St.: Knee deep, not passable to light vehicles
Palanca Quinta Market: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehiclesV)
Rizal Ave Pampanga St.: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Rizal Ave Aurora: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Taft Avenue cor. UN Ave.: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Taft Avenue corner Padre Faura: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Taft Avenue from Apacible to Escoda: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Taft PGH NB/SB: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Taft Remedios NB/SB: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Finance Taft: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Blvd. P. Ocampo: Tire deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Blvd Pedro Gil northbound: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Blvd Kalaw NB: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Kalaw SB: Tire deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Quirino Avenue Guazon: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Quirino Avenue corner Pedro Gil: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Blvd. U.N.: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Roxas Blvd Bonifacio Drive: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Jose Abad Santos Tayuman: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Jose Abad Santos Recto: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Rizal Ave Fugoso: Half Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Kalaw Taft: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehiclesV)
P. Ocampo Mabini Intersection: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
RMB V. Mapa Intersection: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Ayala Blvd Taft EB/WB: Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Liwasang Bonifacio City Hall: Knee deep, not passable to light vehicles
Esplanade tunnel going to Intramuros: Knee deep, not passable to light vehicles
Ayala Blvd Natividad: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Quirino L. Guinto: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Navotas City
Road 10 corner C3 Intersection: Half Knee deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Quezon City
G. Araneta NS Amoranto: Waist deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Biak na Bato corner Atok street: Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA North Avenue northbound: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Las Piñas
Marcos Alvarez near Wonderland Subd Talon Singko: Gutter deep (8 inches), passable to all types of vehicles
Alabang Zapote Road: Knee deep (19 inches), not passable to all types of vehicles
Zapote Junction knee deep (19 inches), not passable to light vehicles
Malabon City
M.H. Del Pilar Brgy. Maysilo Malabon: Waist deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
M. H. Del Pilar Gov Pascual: Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
P. Aquino Letre: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Rizal Ave. Extension near Malabon City Hall: Above Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Valenzuela City
Barangay Marulas: Chest deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Barangay Dalandanan: Waist deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Barangay Malanday : Waist deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Parañaque City
Dr. A Santos, Green heights waist deep (37 inches), not passable to all types of vehicles
Dr. A. Santos SM Sucat. 4 ft., not passable to all types of vehicles
Dr A. Santos Ave Victor Medina: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Dr A. Santos Ave St Peter to Olivares College: 6 ft., not passable to all types of vehicles
MIA Domestic: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Gatchalian Evacom: 5 ft., not passable to all types of vehicles
Canaynay Road: Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Makati City
Osmeña Emilio: Half knee deep (10 inches), passable to all types of vehicles
Caloocan City
C3 NLEX Connector: Knee deep, not passable to all types of vehicles
Marikina City
SM Marikina underpass going FVR road: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Major Dizon Marikina, Marikina River overflow, not passable to all types of vehicles
Mandaluyong City
EDSA Shaw tunnel NB/SB: Above Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Muntinlupa City
National Road in front of Muntinlupa City Hall Brgy. Putatan: Half tire, not passable to light vehicles
Meanwhile, floodwaters have subsided in the following areas:
Pasay City
EDSA Heritage SB. Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA Roxas Blvd NB/SB: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
EDSA Taft MRT NB: Gutter deep, passable to all types of vehicles
Weather update
State weather bureau PAGASA said heavy rains will continue to drench parts of the country due to the Habagat and the trough of the LPA.
As of 3:00 a.m., the LPA was estimated at 1,140 kilometers east of Central Luzon. Meanwhile, another LPA was estimated at 370 kilometers east of Calayan, Cagayan.
PAGASA said monsoon rains may affect Metro Manila, CALABARZON, Zambales, Bataan, Pampanga, Bulacan, and Occidental Mindoro while occasional rains may prevail over Pangasinan, Benguet, Tarlac, Marinduque, and Oriental Mindoro.
Cloudy skies with scattered rains and thunderstorms were forecast over Cagayan Valley, Visayas, the rest of Luzon, Zamboanga Peninsula, BARMM, SOCCSKSARGEN, and Davao Region, while partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rain showers or thunderstorms may be experienced over the rest of Mindanao. — KG/BAP, GMA Integrated News
