Floods hit Metro Manila, other areas amid heavy rains
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Several areas in Metro Manila and other areas were submerged in flood after a heavy downpour on Thursday morning.
In Quezon City, chest-deep flood was monitored in a portion of Araneta Avenue where some vehicles that attempted to cross the area broke down, James Agustin reported on GMA Integrated News’ Unang Balita.
Waist-deep flood built up on Maria Clara Street corner Don Jose Street while leg-deep flood was reported on Banawe Street corner N.S. Amoranto Street and Caliraya Road.
Floods were also reported on N.S. Amoranto Street near Sto. Domingo Avenue and Calamba Street, according to the report.
In Manila, a portion of España Boulevard from Maceda Street to University of Santo Tomas was impassable to vehicles due to flooding, according to a report of Darlene Cay.
In Pasay City, floods were also experienced.
In Marikina City, the water level in Marikina River already reached the first alarm at 15 meters at 5:30 a.m., according to a report of Bam Alegre. Once it reaches the second alarm at 16 meters, residents in low-lying areas will be evacuated.
Two vehicles were also seen stuck in the middle of the flood in Marikina Riverbanks.
Based on its flood alert, the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) said floods were reported in the following areas in the region:
Quezon City
N.S. Amoranto Street-Banawe Street northbound (NB) and southbound (SB) - knee deep at 6:56 a.m.
E. Rodriguez in front of Delos Santos Medical Center eastbound (EB) and westbound (WB) - knee deep at 6:56 a.m.
Quezon Avenue-Biak na Bato Street WB - gutter deep at 6:47 a.m.
E.Rodriguez Avenue-Araneta Avenue - 19 inches at 5:23 a.m.
G. Araneta Avenue corner Baloy Street - knee deep at 5:40 a.m.
Commonwealth Avenue-Tandang Sora Avenue WB - gutter deep at 5:24 a.m.
Manila
Pedro Gil Street-Quirino Avenue NB - 8 inches at 5:07 a.m.
España Boulevard-Lacson Avenue intersection - 8 inches at 5:20 a.m.
España Boulevard corner M. Dela Fuente Street -12 inches at 5:20 a.m.
Pureza RMB WB - 8 inches at 5:20 a.m.
V. Mapa- RMB WB - 8 inches at 5:20 a.m.
Kalaw Avenue-Roxas Boulevard NB - 8 inches at 5:21 a.m.
Pasay
Andrews Avenue-Tramo Street - 8 inches 5:40 a.m.
Evacuated
Meanwhile in Negros Occidental, around 30,000 families have been evacuated due to the floods. In Bago City alone, around 2,400 families were staying inside evacuation centers.
In a hospital, some medical workers were using an old refrigerator to move around in the middle of the flood.
In Lemery, Batangas, a truck tilted after falling off a ditch which was covered by deep flood.
In Olongapo City, students were unable to cross a road in Barangay Old Cabalan due to the strong current of flood. Flooding was also reported in Rizal Avenue. — Joviland Rita/RSJ, GMA Integrated News
