LIST: Flooded areas in Metro Manila on Sunday, July 25, 2021
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Several areas in Metro Manila were flooded on Sunday as the Southwest Monsoon (Habagat) continued to bring heavy rains.
The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority shared a list of flooded areas:
Caloocan City, as of 12 noon
Brgy 4 Sangandaan Bisig- Knee deep
Brgy Libis Baes - Gutter deep
Brgy 160 - Gutter deep
Malabon City, as of 12 noon
C. Arellano Brgy ibaba - Above gutter deep
P. Aquino Brgy Tonsuya - Gutter deep
Sitio 6 Brgy Catmon - Half tire deep
Gov. Pascual Ma. Clara - Half tire deep
Panghulo road - Half tire deep
Muntinlupa City, as of 12 noon
Aplaya, Barangay Buli: knee deep
Purok 1 dulo, Barangay Buli: chest deep
Purok 1 entrance, Barangay Buli: knee deep
Hills view, Barangay Putatan: waist deep
Navotas City, as of 12 noon
Sipac Santiago - Above gutter deep
Daang Hari M. Naval - Above gutter deep
M. Naval Gov. Pascual - Gutter deep
Pasig City, as of 12 noon
Kalusugan de la paz - Knee deep
St. Mary Manggahan - Gutter deep
Quezon City, as of 8 a.m:
Maria Clara to NS Amoranto: waist deep. Not passable to all types of vehicles
Araneta-P. Florentino to Del Monte: waist deep. Not passable to all types of vehicles
Gumamela St., Barangay Roxas: Man deep. Not passable to all types of vehicles
West Riverside, Brgy. Del Monte: waist to chest deep. Not passable to all types of vehicles
ERB Araneta: knee to waist deep. Not passable to all types of vehicles
Araneta-Victory Ave.: knee deep. Not passable to light vehicles
Araneta-Caliraya to Kitanlad: knee deep. Not passable to light vehicles
Agno Street, Tatalon: knee deep. Not passable to light vehicles
Victo Street, Tatalon: knee deep. Not passable to light vehicles
Taguig City, as of 12 noon
Kawayanan Brgy Tuktukan - Knee deep
Bagong Sicat Sta. Ana - Knee deep
Mercado Brgy Hagonoy - Knee deep
Moon light Brgy Hagonoy - Above Knee deep
Bagong silang Brgy Hagonoy - Knee deep
Valenzuela City, as of 12 noon
MacArthur BBB - Half tire deep
G. Lazaro Dalandanan - Half tire deep
Viente Reales Canumay west bypass road - Man deep
P. Santiago Mc Arthur - Knee deep
Manila
Meanwhile, in Manila, Remegio Street corner Rizal Avenue had gutter-deep flood as of 8 a.m., according to a report by Rod Vega on Super Radyo dzBB.
PAGASA said monsoon rains will be experienced on Sunday in Metro Manila, Ilocos Region, Abra, Benguet, Zambales, Bataan, Pampanga, Bulacan, Cavite, Batangas, Occidental Mindoro, and Calamian Islands.
Refresh this page for updates. —KG, GMA News
