Henry Gains Strength While Exiting | OneNews.PH
Publication metadata: unavailable; see source HTML
Typhoon Henry will continue to enhance the southwest monsoon that will bring rains over parts of Luzon even as the tropical cyclone exited the Philippine area of responsibility (PAR) past midnight Sunday, Sept. 4.
The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said Henry will bring rains and gusty winds over Batanes and Babuyan Islands.
As of 11 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 3, Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal (TCWS) No. 1 was still up over Batanes and the northeastern portion of Babuyan Islands, which include the islands of Balintang, Calayan, Babuyan, Camiguin and Didicas.
At 10 p.m., Henry was spotted 520 kilometers northeast of Itbayat, Batanes, with maximum sustained winds of 150 kms per hour near the center and gustiness of up to 185 kph.
Meanwhile, scattered rainshowers are expected over other parts of Luzon due to Henry’s trough and the southwest monsoon.
Cloudy skies and scattered rains may be experienced in Metro Manila, Ilocos Region, the rest of Cagayan Valley, the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR), Central Luzon and CALA-BARZON.
Occasional gusts reaching strong to gale-force strength are expected over the regions of Ilocos, CAR, Central Luzon, Metro Manila, CALABARZON and Bicol, and the provinces of Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva Vizcaya, Quirino, Occidental and Oriental Mindoro, Romblon and the remaining localities of Babuyan Islands that are not under any wind signal.
PAGASA said that Henry could slightly re-intensify as it exited the PAR at 1:40 a.m. on Sunday, Sept. 4, and made its way northward.
Flooded roads
Floods rose quickly in a number of roads in Metro Manila as the southwest monsoon dumped rains over the metropolis. PAGASA issued a Yellow Heavy Rainfall Warning for Metro Manila at 11:30 a.m. Saturday, Sept. 3, warning residents of flooding especially in low-lying areas.
In Manila, among the inundated roads that remained passable to vehicles as of noon were Dimasalang/Aragon Street, Rizal and Recto Avenues, Ramon Magsaysay Boulevard and Altura, España and Blumentritt, Union Street and Peñafrancia corner Pedro Gil; Taft Avenue corner Padre Faura to UN Avenue, A. Francisco to Tejeron, Quirino Avenue to Pedro Gil, Pasig Line to Sagradia Familia to A. Francisco, Jose Abad Santos at the corners of Antipolo and Tayuman Streets, Quirino corner Tomas Claudio, Baseco Compound and Bilibid Viejo fronting San Sebas-tian Church.
Princess Abante, Manila public information officer, said the city government sent trucks from the Manila Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office and the Manila Police District to pick up stranded passengers on the stretch of Vito Cruz and Taft Avenue going to Monumento, Welcome Rotonda and Divisoria area.
In Malabon City, inundated areas included the Tonsuya Intersection, P. Aquino, Magsaysay, F. Sevilla Market, A. Reyes, Sitio 6 in Barangay Catmon and Tatawid Intersection in Barangay Santulan, where floods measured half a foot.
Malabon and Caloocan Cities suspended afternoon shift classes in all levels in both public and private schools.
In Navotas City, water rose to four inches high along M. Naval and Gov. Pascual. Parts of Valenzuela City were also flooded by about two to four inches.
The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority reported gutter-deep flooding in major roads as E. Rodriguez, Araneta Avenue, EDSA Dario Bridge, C-5, Aurora Boulevard and Quezon Avenue in Quezon City as well as Julia Vargas in Pasig City. P1.5 B for Florita victims
Meanwhile, P1.5 billion in stockpiles and standby funds for victims of Severe Tropical Storm Florita are still available with the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
DSWD assistant secretary Romel Lopez confirmed this in a Viber message to reporters as 71 families or 264 persons displaced by Florita remained in temporary shelters at seven evacuation centers across Regions 1, 3 and the CAR.
Lopez said the DSWD’s standby resources include P600,441,200.86 standby funds in its central and field offices; 616,223 family food packs amounting to P351,943,632.71; other food items amounting to P179,281,666.30; and non-food items amounting to P415,818,491.57.
Aside from the 71 families currently staying in temporary shelters due to Florita, Lopez said there are 265 families or 908 more displaced persons temporarily staying with their relatives or friends in the said regions.
A total of 113 houses were damaged during Florita’s onslaught last week, of which 18 are totally destroyed, said Lopez. In terms of assistance given by the DSWD, he said the total assistance has reached P13,433,520.29 to date.
Batanes airports
In relation to Typhoon Henry, the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) reported that Basco and Itbayat airports suffered no damage as the tropical cyclone accelerated its move northward away from extreme northern Luzon.
Eric Apolonio, CAAP spokesman, said airport operations personnel were conducting clearing of foreign object debris on the runways of both terminals before accommodate incoming flights.
The Media Affairs Division of the Manila International Airport Authority said flights of PAL Express 2P 2932/2933 Manila-Basco-Manila stayed cancelled and that airline operators would be advised once the runways at the affected terminals are ready for flights.
Other cancelled flights due to bad weather as of 6:30 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 3, were Cebu Pacific 5J 389/390 Manila-Cagayan-Manila; 5J 639/640 Manila-Puerto Princesa-Manila and 5J 557/556 Manila-Cebu-Manila.
In another development, the DSWD temporarily cancelled its cash assistance payout in Batanes due to the typhoon.
Lopez explained that the decision was made in consultation with the local government unit of Ivana, Batanes. – With Ghio Ong, Jose Rodel Clapano, Rudy Santos
